---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/daily-notes/2026-01-15/","created":"2026-01-15T21:13:34.791-05:00","updated":"2026-01-16T10:33:56.992-05:00"}
---


- [ ] ask him about calendar for Q1
- [ ] travel partner, apprentice
- [ ] by start of Q3, we will be in a different space. I will not feel like i'm holding back.
- [ ] I am just a friend u kissed bc lots in common w career, background, life goals
- [ ] this successful strategist gatekept me so that I could come in with a particular vibe
- [ ] why aren't we collabing. snapchatting. while cat's away, mice play.
- [ ] saying our timelines are diff is a limiting belief.
- [ ] as your beneficial adversary, 
- [ ] what is our evidence of self-harm on her end
- [ ] my justification for reaching out is that she wants to know a "shit-ton" about me
- [ ] i would show up as I needed, not pretty,
- [ ] i would improve your guest experience in your home by 1% each day. in the aggregate, that 1% makes the all the difference
- [ ] she needs to be a little bit afraid of what you do if she doesn't get it together
- [ ] what's her motivation to change when nothing changes for her; all she has to do is sustain your lectures
- [ ] she needs to hear from me that i'm not coming to take her man. i want her relationship with her man to be better than it is today. if she wants something else, that's fair too.
- [ ] Move out for 30 days. Show that you're serious.
- [ ] snark: you know what they say about the 17th year of marriage. its the money year, where all you gotta do is talk louder and lecture longer to your partner on what needs to change, you make no lifestyle change, she gets her whole life paid for, and then she makes the changes you want on her own.

- [ ] it is now mid-January. we punted decision-making with us down the road. we got by and still truly connected during that time.
- [ ] now, the switch has flipped. 
- [ ] it is established, absorbed, cemented that I'm not going fucking anywhere when it comes to you
- [ ] with that fact, I get to speak to you in a way that I couldn't otherwise bc you'd wonder if the relationship was in jeopardy or someone can't contain something. this is not abuse when i have to have a stern talk with you, or you have one with me like you did the other day
- [ ] 

- [ ] what are the containers for our shared projects
	- [ ] KT. she will always be a project, How are we supporting her to be the best mom she can be, meet her personal growth goals, and become the type of and level of partner we want. Marital status irrelevant.
	- [ ] Maggie's Relationships with Men. The ultimate box is checked, but that's not the end of the story. The precious box of wholeheartedly liking each other, getting to be oneself, compatibility both subjectively and objectively.
- [ ] what are our values together
